# Oomph's scss-scaffold

This is Oomph's boilerplate scaffold for starting front-end theme development.

## Documentation

Documentation generated by [SassDoc](http://sassdoc.com/) is hosted at
[http://scaffold-docs.labs.oomphcloud.com](http://scaffold-docs.labs.oomphcloud.com).

## Team Maintenance

All UI Team Members are expected to help maintain this scaffold and update
best practices as we work on other projects. The workflow should be something
like this:

* A Team Member clones this repo and starts a new project with it.
* They notice something that they need to change in the scaffold that is
NOT specific for this project, like a default markup pattern has changed, a
browser has become unsupported, or an error or omission in a function needs
an update.
* The Team Member changes it in their new project, AND ALSO goes back to the
scaffold and files an issue in Github and assigns it to themself.
* They can then resolve the issue by making the change needed and submitting a
PR for review, or they can go back and handle the issue later.
* The Team Member finishes their update, has it approved in code review, commits 
their change to master and creates a new annotated tag (more on tags below).

In this way, maintenance becomes a team effort and no one person is burdened
with all maintenance responsibilities.

Likewise, if there is a new great idea that we should incorporate into this
scaffold, any Team Member can file an issue and bring the idea forward for
review and inclusion.

### Creating Tags

New changes that get merged to master should also receive a new tagged release.

Follow the conventions outlined here: http://semver.org/ to determine the new 
release number you should bump up to. 

To create a tag locally, use the following command:
```sh
$ git tag -a 1.1.2
```
You'll be prompted to enter release notes and save after running this command. 
Alternatively, you can use the `-m` flag and enter your message inline the same 
way you might write a quick commit message. Your release notes should contain a 
clear overview of all changes that were added in this release.

Tags don't push up to the remote server automatically. 
To push your tag up, use `git push --follow-tags`. 

For more information on tags, check https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Basics-Tagging.

## Getting Started

### Using a Tagged Release

When adding scaffold to a new project, make sure you use the latest tagged release 
instead of just cloning master (as we did previously).

To grab the lastest tagged release, navigate to the [Releases section](https://github.com/oomphinc/scss-scaffold/releases) 
and download the most recent version.

### Add Bourbon & Neat

If you are going to compile and test this scaffold locally, you will need to
add the dependencies Bourbon and Neat:

```sh
# You already have SASS installed, right?
$ which sass

# You should see a path to your local SASS copy
# Not there? Install it:
$ sudo gem install sass

# Requires Sass 3.3+
$ sass --v
$ Sass 3.4.20

# Old version? Update!
$ sudo gem update sass

# Never installed bourbon or neat? Install their gems first.
$ sudo gem install bourbon
$ sudo gem install neat

# Then, navigate to the `libraries` directory to install:
$ cd path/to/scaffold/libraries
$ bourbon install
$ neat install
```

### Compile manually
While working on the Scaffold, compile your CSS and test the output by running
it in this folder. Here's the command:

```sh
$ sass --watch path/to/styles.scss:path/to/output.css --style compressed
```

### Linting
For our SCSS testing we are using `pre-commit` hooks provided by `git` more
info here: [pre-commit by Yelp](http://pre-commit.com/)

##### Installing Pre-Commit
If you use Homebrew, run `brew install pre-commit`
If not, freakin install it from [Homebrew](http://brew.sh/)

Currently the linter is setup to only run on changed files and only when commiting.
Occasionaly we have projects that for whatever reason need us to "tweak" these
standards and the linter process allows two simple ways to do so.

1. To notify the linter to not run on certain code blocks you can use some
special comments, read more here: [Disabling Linters via Source](https://github.com/brigade/scss-lint#disabling-linters-via-source)

2. To override the linter during the actual commiting process, you can use
the `--no-verify` flag when doing your commit. For more information review the [Advanced Features](http://pre-commit.com/#advanced) of pre-commit.

# Happy theming!
